{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf250
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10100\viewh12380\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\qc

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 PROJ Framework\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 4.7.0-2	2010-3-9\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 This is a framework version of the Unix {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.remotesensing.org/proj/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b PROJ}} geographic projection library and tools.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
Mac OS 10.5 or greater is required, and either a PowerPC or Intel Mac.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Programs
\b0 \ul \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
Programs are in the framework's Programs folder.  If you want to easily execute these programs, add the Programs folder to your shell path (add this line to your 
\f1\fs24 ~/.bash_profile
\f0\fs28 ).  ie:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 export PATH=/Library/Frameworks/PROJ.framework/Programs:$PATH\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sourceforge.net/projects/libungif/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf0 \
}}\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Developer Use\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Compiling and Linking\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
As a framework, normal Xcode compiler/CPP behaviour applies.  That is, no 
\f1\fs24 -I
\f0\fs28  option is needed if the main PROJ header is specified as 
\f1\fs24 <PROJ/proj_api.h>
\f0\fs28 .  Linking options are 
\f1\fs24 -framework PROJ
\f0\fs28 .\
\
Unix software can also use the -framework linking, but be aware that libtool before version 1.5.13 will not pass that thru without the protection of a 
\f1\fs24 -Xlinker
\f0\fs28  or 
\f1\fs24 -Xcompiler
\f0\fs28  prefix (depending on the libtool version).\
\
Without changing anything in the Unix source, compiling and linking is simple - use the 
\f1\fs24 [framework_name].framework/unix
\f0\fs28  symlink folder as if it were 
\f1\fs24 /usr/local
\f0\fs28 .  That unix symlink folder has the usual bin-lib-include structure for configure to locate what it needs.  In other words, a common configure option might be 
\f1\fs24 --with-proj=/Library/Frameworks/PROJ.framework/unix
\f0\fs28 .\
\
Note: no static libraries are included.  Some configure scripts test for the availability of a library by the presence of the static library.  You must edit the configure script to change those libproj.a's to libproj.dylib's.  Or to a framework test.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ul Other Notes\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone \
You can move them to other locations, such as an Application's package.  The usual place in an application is the app's 
\f1\fs24 Contents/Frameworks
\f0\fs28  folder.  Before linking (or maybe after linking) the framework copy's install_name and library paths should be changed using 
\f1\fs24 install_name_tool
\f0\fs28 .  A handy relative path that can be used is 
\f1\fs24 @executable_path
\f0\fs28 , this is the location of the app executable.  So a path to the framework within the app package would be 
\f1\fs24 @executable_path/../Frameworks/PROJ.framework/PROJ
\f0\fs28 .\
\
You would have to change the id of the framework, and the dependencies of the framework that are also included in the app package, to be relative paths.  This can get messy.\
\
Currently there is an additional consideration: the data folder.  It is normally hardwired into the library, but there is also an environment variable to override that.  It's up to the programs using PROJ to take care of this.\
\
A patch has been applied to PROJ for reading datum files.  Rather than being processed at build time for a specific architecture, they are assumed to be little-endian (since I built this on a MacBook), and PROJ will byte-swap upon reading them on a PPC Mac.  The nad2nad tool will create little-endian grid files, if additional grids need to be added.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Uninstall\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
Drag PROJ.framework from /Library/Frameworks to the Trash.\
\
Run one of these commands in a Terminal, depending on your system version:\
\

\f1\fs24 sudo pkgutil --forget org.maptools.proj-framework-leo\

\f0\fs28  - or:\

\f1\fs24 sudo pkgutil --forget org.maptools.proj-framework-snow\

\f0\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Support, Documentation, and Disclaimer\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
This software is provided "as is", without any warranty or guarantee of its usability or fitness for any purpose.\
\
I don't provide support on the usage of the included software.  See the documentation and help resources on their websites if you need such help.  All I can help with is the installation on Mac OS X, and problems related to its operation on Mac OS X.\
\
I am not a C programmer and cannot help with programming involving the software.  I have enough general programming skills to deal with most build issues and some programming issues, and may be able to help with problems with this build that affect its inclusion in other software.\
\
\
- William Kyngesburye\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:kyngchaos@kyngchaos.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 kyngchaos@kyngchaos.com}}
\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1440\ql\qnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kyngchaos.com"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf0 http://www.kyngchaos.com/}}
\fs28 \
}